Let's have a look at that strange timing function thing we saw in the last lecture. We can think of the
timing or the duration of the transition as a function. At the beginning,
no time passed and that transition also has a completion state of 0%
but as we play the animation, it transitions from 0% completion to 100% over the given time
and for this specific function here, it temporarily even has a higher completion in the end completion. This
is also possible, you could have functions where you for example one to change the scale of an element
and in-between, you actually have a bigger scale than at the end, to have a bumping effect.
This is something you can easily build with CSS animations, something I'll dive in later.
Now regarding the transition timing functions, if you google for CSS timing functions, you'll find a
really helpful site,
easeing functions cheat sheet, easings.net
and there, you'll find a lot of values or timing functions and if you hover over them, there's also
a demo animation playing showing you how this actually will look like.
So for example, this one, easeInCubic starts really slow and finishes fast.
If you click on one of them, it also shows you a code for this
and that's interesting.
Thus far, we used ease out, ease in, actually there also is linear and this helpful cubic bezier function.
This allows you to enter your own timing function with four parameters defining that function,
this essentially defines a function of time and completion
and sites like this are really great to create such a timing function.
So if we copy that for example and we insert this for our transform transition of the modal, cubic bezier
with these values,
now if we go back to our project and reload the page and I click Choose plan,
now you see it starts very slow and then finishes suddenly. Even better, in the Chrome developer tools,
if you inspect your modal here and you inspect the properties,
you can see that timing function here and there's this button. You can find that strange button next
to each timing function, to any timing function you have.
If you click it, you can actually create your timing function in the Chrome developer tools by playing
with these handles.
Generally, the steeper it's at the beginning, the faster it starts and the slower it
ends so to say.
So you can play around with that and create really powerful timing function,
you always get a preview at the top or by the way and this can be nice to find out how to work with
timing functions to create that visual transition effect
you want to have.